---
layout: post
title: Hidden Potato
subtitle: "Week 23 Practice Lab #3"
tags: [practice lab, cryptography]
---

This is another lab which does not have much to do with any specific topic of security. Rather, it tests your understanding of Linux and problem-solving ability. In preparation, we should review some basic concepts.

1. What is a hash function? What is a *cryptographic* hash function?
3. What are some common uses of a cryptographic hash function?
3. What is a (UTF-8) "plaintext" file vs. a "binary" file?
4. How do you apply the [*kill chain*](https://twlinux.github.io/2017-10-30-kali/) methodology to a penetration test?

Be familiar with relevant Linux commands, like `ping`, `nmap`, and `grep`.

The content above contains some dead giveaways on how to solve this week's challenge. But of course, not everything has been spoiled. What to do when you get stuck? Remember...

> Google is your friend!

Your team will be assigned a server, either `potato0.local`, `potato1.local`, or `potato2.local`. These servers (should be) identical. You can SSH into the servers on the default port 22, with the credentials below:

```
Username: potato
Password: starch
```

# Hash Functions

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_function>

> A **hash function** is any function that can be used to map data of arbitrary size to data of fixed size.

In Programming 3, you will learn about hash functions and their relevance to data structures. A popular use of hash functions is to identify data and verify integrity. The integrity of downloads from the internet can be assured by computing a hash of the file, and comparing it against the checksum. If you visit the [Kali Linux downloads page](https://www.kali.org/downloads/), you'll notice that checksums are listed next to their respective ISOs.

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_hash_function>

> A **cryptographic hash function** is a special class of hash function that has certain properties which make it suitable for use in cryptography. It is a mathematical algorithm that maps data of arbitrary size to a bit string of a fixed size (a hash) and is designed to be a [one-way function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One-way_function), that is, a function which is infeasible to invert. The only way to recreate the input data from an ideal cryptographic hash function's output is to attempt a brute-force search of possible inputs to see if they produce a match, or use a rainbow table of matched hashes.

The most popular cryptographic hash function is the [*Secure Hash Algorithm*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SHA-2) (SHA), developed by NIST. Even though its less secure, *MD5* (Message Digest version 5) is also very popular.

To compute hashes on Linux, simply run the corresponding command: `md5sum`, `sha1sum`, `sha256sum`, `sha512sum`...

<div style="overflow-x: scroll;">
<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Algorithm</th>
      <th>Cleartext</th>
      <th>hash</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>MD5</td>
      <td>beans</td>
      <td><code class="highlighter-rouge">83490687e22073309e516a1c02b974eb</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>SHA1</td>
      <td>beans</td>
      <td><code class="highlighter-rouge">b60efdd7fb69c8ef063935f4d7eddad40eb82ee4</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>SHA256</td>
      <td>beans</td>
      <td><code class="highlighter-rouge">4c6104ff17b3b4fcc9cfb40f9db70bc317023a71a529b30ee14c4a0844677f83</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>SHA512</td>
      <td>beans</td>
      <td><code class="highlighter-rouge">25ce77937cefb2b7f06ca7042536ff010b811afd5d3530301dce6a0ec891a28bfb5daae64f9046e45bcacaf961c0304a1c4a11f4ba614567cd614951c6fa5042</code></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
</div>
